My name is Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here
in Hong Kong, you're watching the China
Show. I'm Yvonne Man with David Ingles.
>> Good morning. We're [music] counting
down to the open of markets in greater
China. Let's get your top stories today.
Oil and nat [music] gas prices are
surging early Monday while stocks are
coming under pressure as failed peace
[music] talks between the US and Iran
escalate a global energy crisis.
>> President Trump says the US Navy will
blockade the Strait of [music] Hormuz
from Monday, effectively cutting off
Iran's primary means of exporting oil.
Also ahead, China unveils measures to
boost [music] relations with Taiwan
after a meeting between Chinese
President Xi Jinping and the island's
opposition leader. And Hungarians end
Victor Orban's [music] 16-year rule in
historic elections that will redefine
their country's relationship [music]
with the US, EU, and Russia.
>> [music]
>> Here we go again. When you take a look
at what's happened over the weekend, of
course those peace talks had collapsed
[music] and now you're talking about the
potential of the entire Strait of Hormuz
effectively blocked according to the US
starting Monday 10:00 a.m. Eastern time.
So, we're just a few hours away from
that, Dave. But certainly, I think
markets I think you take a look at Yes,
you're seeing that in in the oil markets
are back above $100. You're seeing that
across uh US futures, but you look at
Asia stocks here. I think they're taking
it sort of in stride in some ways.
They're seeing some pressure, but not
really like what it was maybe about 5 6
weeks ago. Yeah,
we we learn things 7 weeks into
something, and I think increasingly the
sensitivity to bad headlines still
there. Not as
not as pronounced
>> sensitive, yes.
>> Not as sensitive to these things, right?
And I think it's pronounced mostly in
the energy markets.
Maybe when you look at yields, for
example, and I think it just goes to
show that at least for one point I think
we we are coming off of course one of
the best weeks
in many many weeks for depending on I
think which benchmark you look at. EMs,
for example, which is obviously the the
opposite of the dollar there, had its
best week last week since 2020, right?
So, we are coming off a somewhat
repricing back of risk and we kind of
have to price some of that out again
because of what happened or what didn't
happen over the weekend. But it's it's a
day where we're almost
held hostage because the next 11 13
hours rather we'll be
leading up into that countdown to that
blockade. Yeah, and and we we talked
about there have been some tankers that
actually have successfully gone through
the strait
last couple days or so. Does that now
now that means even the possibility of
Chinese vessels
may not even go through this key
waterway. So, certainly there is going
to be a lot of implications for oil
markets. You're seeing that being priced
in with that geopolitical premium put
back into crude. But yeah, I think when
it comes to stocks, there's still other
themes that we can talking about, right?
It it seems like investors are kind of
not even waiting for the whole taco with
trade to to sink in to really go back
into techno. Because if you learned your
lesson from a few weeks back, there was
a money to be made there if you got got
into these
sort of buy the dips in areas. And I
think the TSMC story, just to mention
that now of course they did come out on
Friday with their monthly sales numbers.
And again, you put everything together.
>> Plus Samsung last week.
>> And Samsung last week. That that theme
of AI is it's not just happening
underneath the hood. It's still it's
gaining momentum. And I think later on
the show Dan Ives in fact he's in town.
We'll be talking to him about the tech
theme as well. But how do we I guess how
do you balance the two things, right?
How do we know when to get in to time
the market and take advantage of these
things? I think the other thing I want
to mention too is that when you look at
Chinese markets, for example, I wonder
what the response will be
from allies of the US and the likes of
China, for example, to this if we do
move into a blockade and how that is
seen through the eyes of a lot of the
economies that really get many of
their stuff from there, whether that's
oil, agriculture, food, container ships.
And how is Iran going to see that too?
Is that going to be seen as a
as an act that violates a ceasefire and
what they will do about that too? I
mean, there's certainly a lot of
narratives, right? And I think what we
heard from CCTV at the end of last week
was that they continued to sort of
downplay the role that China had in
terms of getting Iran to to agree to a
ceasefire in the first place. And you
kind of kind of wonder what the intent
is
there. But they're basically saying, you
know, there's this narrative that, you
know, Iran only listens to China.
I think they're saying, you know, really
didn't play that decisive of a role.
And there were other players involved.
So, that's going to be very interesting,
too, to discuss during the China Show.
>> It will be and I think the next few days
to your point, right? There's there are
a lot of big conferences taking place.
There's one in Hong Kong today, the
Greenwich Forum. There's the HSBC Forum
in the next 2 days or so. And then you
look at what's happening in the US. You
have the IMF spring meetings and I
wonder how this is going to be framed
against the context of, you know, is 7
weeks long enough for us to feel the
scar tissue of this long tail of
economic damage going You're starting to
see, right? Bond markets are certainly
selling off here this morning. The
10-year JGB yield is back to levels that
we haven't seen since '97.
So, you know, it seems like once again
this Iran war has sparked a sort of
concern or wave of tightening possibly
coming through. Let's get to our top
story, of course. We talk about what
President Trump said. The US will begin
a full naval blockade of the Strait of
Hormuz later today after talks between
Washington and Tehran over the weekend
failed to reach a deal. The US military
says this will start 10:00 a.m. New York
time, which is in about 13 hours.
Central Command says the blockade will
be enforced against vessels of all
nations entering or departing Iranian
ports and coastal areas. Trump says the
US will also ban any ship that paid a
toll to Tehran for safe passage and will
clear mines in the waterway.
But we're putting on a complete
blockade.
And we're not going to let Iran make
money on selling oil to people that they
like and not people that they don't like
or whatever it is. It's going to be all
or none and that's the way it is. And
it'll be you saw you saw what we did
with Venezuela. It'll be something very
similar to that, but it at a at a higher
level.
Meanwhile, you do have President Trump
and his advisers are reportedly
considering resuming limited military
strikes on Iran in a bid here to break a
stalemate in those peace talks. This is
according to the Wall Street Journal
citing anonymous officials saying that
that's among the options that the
president is now considering. Jennifer
Welsh joins us right now, our chief
geo-economics analyst to help us make
sense of all this I guess new
information we have and some of the old
as well. Jennifer, how do investors need
to be framing the next let's call it 13
hours going into that that that that
well, that next deadline?
I think the key thing to keep in mind
here is that a blockade is technically
an act of war. So, to the question of
how Iran will perceive this, we think
that their likely to respond to this is
essentially putting an end to that
two-week ceasefire that was announced
last week and will probably begin their
retaliation including by targeting ships
in the Strait of Hormuz that aren't
linked to Iran, possibly also targeting
more energy infrastructure in the Gulf
as they have been over the last few
weeks of the war.
What this means I think for the broader
conflict is still remains very
uncertain. This seems an attempt by
Trump to escalate to de-escalate. I
think there's a strong likelihood that
other countries, namely China, might put
pressure on Washington to pull down the
blockade, but may not be with us for
long. But in the meantime, I think we're
going to see a pretty strong reaction
from energy and broader global markets.
And it still puts what's already been a
pretty fragile ceasefire
uh further in limbo, it seems, Jennifer.
Why why do you think talks really broke
down
over the weekend? And what does this
tell us about finding some sort of
lasting solution?
So, Tehran's representation is were a
little bit more moderate on why talks
broke down. The way they framed it was
essentially that it was very unlikely
that you're going to be able to solve
all the major issues that exist between
warring parties in one round of
dialogue. Washington, however, took a
stronger stance in saying that
essentially talks collapsed because from
DC's perspective, Tehran wasn't willing
to negotiate on the key question for
Washington, which is Iran's future
nuclear program. What that probably
means is a disagreement over the level
and extent of enrichment that can happen
on Iranian soil. And from Tehran's
perspective, this is key. This is
crucial. They frame it as part of their
civilian nuclear program, but under the
Trump administration, they've been
unwilling to contemplate any level of
enrichment for any application.
Jennifer, we're just also just to mark
for our viewers, we are looking at live
pictures out of the Joint Air Force Base
at Andrews. The US president has just
touched down Air Force One and I believe
it does seem like he is about to speak
with the media. So, we I guarantee we
will bring you any relevant lines coming
through out of the president there.
Jennifer, just to bring you back in, the
the optimist in me
looks at what happened over the weekend
and at least they were back
talking to each other. There is a signal
of intent at least from both sides and
whether that gap is how wide that is, a
signal of intent to de-escalate the
situation. My question with that framing
is are we back to square one 7 weeks ago
or are we at least closer to some
some sort of ending here to this to this
conflict?
I don't think we're quite at square one,
but we are set back quite a bit. I mean,
think about it from Iran's perspective,
once again they were negotiating with
the United States and now for the third
time under President Trump they've been
attacked. I think that's going to
heighten their reluctance to want to
negotiate in the future. I think also
And likely to see is Iran continue to
play.
>> I apologize. I have to interrupt you
because the president is speaking now to
reporters at Joint Base Andrews. Let's
listen in. What What we want to do is we
want to And again, we don't need it.
What we notice and what we see and what
I think is
maybe my idea, maybe not. I don't know.
But there are many boats heading toward
our country to fill up with oil and then
go and take it. So they're not going to
go through the Hormuz Strait.
And ultimately that'll be corrected, but
in the meantime they're using us. We
have more oil because of drill, baby,
drill. We have more oil than Russia and
Saudi Arabia put together. So if you
look at Russia
and Saudi Arabia, two big ones, we have
much more oil than they have put
together. And what's happening is boats
are coming over here, filling up. They
don't have to go through the Hormuz
Strait.
Can you give us something, Mr.
President, on the two pilots? Are they
in good condition? Have you spoken to
them or their families? They are in very
good shape and we're very proud of them,
the two pilots, yeah. Mr. President, you
said that Iran will lose their oil much
quicker than
I think Iran is in very bad shape.
I think they're very desperate. We had a
meeting that lasted 21 hours. We
understand the situation better than
anybody. And Iran's in very bad shape.
And And just so you understand, Iran
will not have a nuclear weapon. We will
not have. There is no way that they're
going to get They still want it and they
made that clear the other night. Iran
will not have a nuclear weapon. How long
are you willing for them to come back to
the table?
Oh, I don't know. I don't care if they
come back or not. If they don't come
back, I'm fine. Their military is gone
and their missiles are largely depleted.
The manufacturing capability for
missiles and drones is largely defeated.
We've been very nice. We haven't ripped
down too many bridges. We did one only
because they broke their word, they
broke their promise. And remember, their
promise was that they were going to open
the Hormuz Strait. They didn't do it.
They lied.
Mr. President, how many other countries
right now who are willing to Yeah,
they're coming up and they're helping,
yeah. We have many other countries. Will
you really punish countries that will be
buying the oil from the United States?
Have you had any talks with specific
Well, you just have to see, but our
ships are heading up to our country
right now, empty, and they're going to
go back
filled up with oil. Mr.
President, why did you attack Pope Leo
on Truth Social?
Uh I don't think he's doing a very good
job. He likes crime, I guess. He
He hit us Think of it.
He's worried about fear. What about the
fear when
the ministers and the priests and the
all of those great people that were
arrested during COVID and in many cases
they're outside 10 ft apart and they
were arrested. So we don't like it. We
don't like a pope that's going to say
that it's okay to have a nuclear weapon.
We don't want a pope that says crime is
okay in our cities. I don't like it. I'm
not a big fan of Pope Leo. He's a very
liberal person and he's a man that
doesn't believe in stopping crime. He's
a man that doesn't think that we should
be
toying with a country that wants a
nuclear weapon so they can blow up the
world. So I'm not I'm not a fan of Pope
Leo.
About what? Would you be okay with a
third country
Well, that's a very theoretical
question.
So I I don't want to answer it.
Well, they're coming up. They're going
to be coming up, but I'm very
disappointed in NATO. They didn't do
that. They weren't there for us.
We paid trillions of dollars for NATO
and they weren't there for us.
Remember what I said, NATO was not
there. Now they want to come up, but
there's no real threat anymore. But NATO
was not there for us.
We'll see what happens, but you know, we
spent trillions of dollars on NATO to
help them guard really against Russia.
When you think of it, we're guarding
against Russia.
And
I've long thought it was a little
ridiculous, but we spent trillions of
dollars doing it
and I think that's going to be under
very serious examination.
Thank you very much.
There we go. That was the US president
just minutes, moments after landing,
speaking with reporters,
talking about just a
I guess a varied amount of subjects. Uh
but obviously front and center is Iran
and his thoughts really on what they
plan and state The US president said
they promised to
open the Strait of Hormuz. They didn't
open it. They lied. I mean, he's also
talking about I think something we've
mentioned already.
He's mentioned already in previous
iterations of that that they have
largely depleted the military capability
of Iran. Jennifer Welches been sitting
patiently helping us understand what's
going on, listening in as well to some
of those comments.
Jennifer, anything of I think relevant
consequence to the new information we
have now as Mark digests where we head
the next few hours or so.
I think the main things to unpack or
clarify are starting with President
Trump's claim that a lot of ships are
now headed to the United States and will
fill up with oil and essentially kind of
trying to downplay the economic
consequences of a continued closure of
the Strait of Hormuz.
The United States cannot backfill the
shortage that the closure of Hormuz has
left. There's about 20 million barrels a
day that should normally be flowing out
of Hormuz. The United States can export
maybe a quarter of that, but that is
largely going to existing customers. So
there are still going to be major global
shortfalls. I think a second issue that
he brought up was he seemed to dismiss
the idea of whether or not he cares Iran
comes back to the table and it doesn't
matter to him. The reality is that the
United States has very very limited
options for forcibly reopening Hormuz.
We're going to likely see that in the
next 24 to 48 hours with this attempted
blockade, but there's going to be a lot
of risk involved and that doesn't
necessarily mean that the Strait will
reopen to commercial traffic. And so
what all that suggests is that we're
unlikely to see a return to normal
unless the US does indeed go back to the
negotiating table with Tehran.
Jennifer, it's great to have you. Thanks
for staying on for us. Jennifer Welches
there, Bloomberg Economics chief
geo-economics analyst joining us from
Washington this evening. And for more,
of course, on the impact of the latest
developments in the Middle East on
energy markets, let's bring in our oil
and gas reporter, Dan Murtaugh. He's in
town and perfect timing to really
have you talk about this a closure or at
least this blockade that could happen in
just about less than
15 hours or so. What do you think it's
going to mean for for flows and oil
markets right now? So from the physical
standpoint, it's really not going to
mean that much. Like the Strait of
Hormuz has been basically closed off for
the the last month. We started to see
this weekend a couple of tankers go
through. Two Costco tankers are going
their way to China right now. And we
were hoping that was maybe a sign of
more opening. Obviously that's that's
going to be scaled back. We saw two
tankers U-turn today as they were trying
to make their way out. But really like
the the Strait has been closed, blockade
or no blockade on the US side outside of
a small amount of Iranian crude. So
we're probably going to lose that. But
you know,
as Jennifer was saying, the the gap of
you know, the the lack of Saudi exports,
lack of Kuwaiti exports, lack of Iraqi
exports, that's what's really been
choking the global market. That is not
going to change at all one way or the
other.
But you know, what we're we're seeing is
after the ceasefire was announced last
week, we saw a big bit of risk off come
on on the paper markets, the the oil
futures trading. And that's obviously
come right back in in full steam. And
you know, in the next couple days that's
what people are going to be worried
about. Is is, you know, does this mean
more escalation? Does this mean a longer
cut off? Is there no chance for
any kind of solution anytime soon? Just
for context, we're showing in fact, Dan,
since you brought it up, you know, some
of the vessel traffic that trickled,
although the trickle has somewhat
increased in the last 24 hours or so.
You had I think three vessels coming
inbound on into the Strait. One was able
to get through, two did a U-turn. We
understand one of the two actually did
also manage to get through, so we're
inbound as far as that one's concerned.
Just to clarify it as well, we were also
watching those two Costco tankers and
they managed to get out.
>> to get out. Okay, so they're on their
way to China. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so this is going to be like a a big
question is, you know, when we go
forward like
what does this this blockade mean? You
know, is US really going to stop oil
tankers from getting to China like a
couple weeks ahead of Trump's visit to
to meet with Xi in Beijing?
>> Good question. Um there there's just
like so much uncertainty right now with
with this announcement. And and frankly,
as Ivan mentioned, it's an announcement
that has not gone into force yet. We'll
you know, we've seen turnarounds in US
policy before, so oil traders are
wondering whether this will even go into
effect in 15 hours. But yeah, there
there's tons of uncertainty, but
uncertainty means risk on and so you're
going to be going long if you're going
to be taking a position right now. What
else is is your team watching out for
next few hours? So
a couple of things. The big one is that
Trump had created a waiver for Iranian
oil that was on the water to be allowed
to be purchased. He basically said we
won't enforce sanctions on this. A
couple of tankers of Iranian crude are
on their way to India. We reported, you
know, are those going to be allowed to
unload? Will India take the risk of
taking them off? Those are some big
things. You know, because India is right
now starved for energy. They could
really use the the relief of having some
extra tankers. But, what does this this
new announcement mean for them? Are they
in contact with their
you know, our friends in America? How is
that going to play out?
Okay, Dan. Fantastic. It's It's that
granular. We're literally looking vessel
to vessel here. Dan Murtaugh, our oil
and gas reporter. Going into the first
session of the week here, cash markets
about 10 minutes away from the open the
opening bell. We are looking at some
declines and weakness across equity
markets, although not to the extent you
would expect given the breakdown in
talks over the weekend. So, let's call
it a regular in
air quotes regular down hour story
across the region. [music]
A preview of the trading day is just
ahead. This is the China show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Former US National Security Advisor John
Bolton says [music] a ceasefire with
Iran was a mistake, arguing that
negotiations will not bring lasting
peace to the Middle East. A long time
Iran hawk told us that only genuine
regime change in Tehran can ensure
long-term security in the region.
I come from the perspective that the
only way to to get true peace and
security in the Middle East is to have
regime change in Iran. You can negotiate
all you want with these people. It's not
going to change anything. And I think
the failure of the Islamabad
negotiations
just makes the point as clearly as as
one can. I think the ceasefire was a
mistake. But, but just dealing with
where we are right now, part of the
problem here was caused by Donald Trump
a few weeks ago lifting American
sanctions on the shipment of Iranian
oil. And I think he was motivated by
fear of rising international oil prices
and he thought a few tankers might get
the price down. I don't think that's
correct. I think it was insignificant.
But, but what he was doing was allowing
Iran to ship oil, not the Gulf Arabs,
but Iran
presumably to get paid to gain resources
to use in their military to kill
Americans.
Financing the war against us. That never
made any sense. And he should he should
reimpose the sanctions. I think that
maybe I haven't seen these tweets, but I
think that maybe what he's doing. And a
blockade makes sense. You don't have to
attack Kharg Island. I don't I don't
think that was ever realistic. The point
is no Iran if no Gulf Arab oil gets out,
no Iranian oil gets out. Let's see how
they feel about that in Tehran. We're
going to get back to the blockade in a
second, but you mentioned regime change.
So, I've got to ask you that this
administration the US administration
seems to think that that what has
happened in Iran over the last 6 weeks
constitutes as regime regime change. Do
you agree?
That's ridiculous. Look, what we're
dealing with is a group of
religious fanatics pursuing a radical
ideology and it it permeates
the core of ayatollahs at the top and
certainly permeates the Revolutionary
Guard. Now, the leadership of both the
civilian side of the government and the
Revolutionary Guard has been severely
harmed by the last 6 weeks. Not enough
obviously, but it's beginning to
fracture the regime at the top. There's
signs of that
inside Iran. And I think the devastation
that's been unleashed against the
instruments of Iranian state power, the
Revolutionary Guard, the Quds Force, the
Basij militia are having a real effect
inside Iran. I think the ceasefire was a
mistake. The last thing you want to do
is let up before you really do crack the
regime and it collapses internally. That
gives internal opponents and people who
defect from the regime a chance to take
over. Not guaranteed, but a chance.
That was John Bolton there, of course,
the former US National Security Advisor
speaking, of course, with our team over
the weekend.
Just to also mention as you look at the
the approach to the open today, a
further another line coming through
here, headline coming through out of
Donald Trump, the US President on Iran
talks. Um
I don't care if they come back or not is
the general idea of that headline. Yeah,
you got to wonder is this the escalate
to de-escalate? You know, is this all
just part of the negotiating process or
is it is this just a sign that things
are just breaking down? That certainly
is a key a sort of question for the
market here today. Stocks are facing a
lot of pressure, but not as much as what
you're seeing in bond markets and not as
much as what you're seeing across energy
markets here this morning. If you take a
look at European natural gas prices,
which has began trading for the last 21
hours or so and widening that trading
window, really reacting with a massive
spike this morning. So, that [music]
certainly did wake us all up here on
this Monday morning. We're going to have
more coming up with the open next. This
is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Good morning, morning. Welcome back.
You're looking [music] at the approach
to the opening bell here. We're looking
at given the modest down draft we're
seeing across equity markets, near-term
support levels will be very much in
focus [music] and whether or not those
hold.
We're also looking at the ball index
given this return
of uncertainty in [music] these markets
given the failed talks in this upcoming
what in about 12 hours and 30 [music]
minutes this
uh naval blockade that the US military
[music]
has put in place. Couple of other
sectors to watch, everything from
uh precious metals, energy, and of
course, this travel [music] related uh
story we're also tracking. Yeah, you
know, certainly we're saying when you
talk about oil back at above $100, that
certainly does lead to a lot [music] of
headline risk. But, I think as you say,
investors are really not quite reacting
as forcefully as they used to maybe 6
weeks ago when this war first broke out.
So, there are other sort of stories to
to tell you about. The tech story, I
mean, just given what we saw last week,
the amount of foreign buying into
markets like Korea, into markets like
Taiwan. Uh you know, does that just a
you know, a pause button here today?
But, certainly that trend continues in
some ways. And it's really the AI
hardware sort of thing over software
right now. Uh you take a look at what it
comes to the onshore markets. So, as you
mentioned, modestly lower when it comes
to stocks also in greater China, we're
slightly lower by about 4/10 of 1% in
Shanghai. You take a look at when it
comes to bond markets in China, they're
not really kind of reacting as as
forcefully as what you're seeing across
Asia fixed income here today. The
possibility of that this global
tightening that could be more priced in
given the fact that oil is back above
100. Um so, right now you're seeing not
that much movement when it comes to
CGBs. Shanghai crude though, there you
go, is matching sort of the moves that
we're seeing when it comes to Brent and
WTI. We're up about 3 and 1/2% for
Shanghai crude futures here this
morning.
Uh CATL continues to be that bright spot
there, 1.9% to the upside. But, you take
a look at when it comes to the chips on
these large caps are mostly to the
downside here today. Take a look at when
it comes to Hong Kong and what's been
going on the tech space because we
actually ended last week on a pretty
positive note when it came to HS Tech.
In fact, you know, this AI trade really
came back in in Asia. Uh certainly one
thing to watch, of course, is going to
be what happens with the picks and
shovels sort of thing. Uh TSMC, right?
That that quarterly sales beat certainly
is the buffer here today. We take a look
at how TSMC in Taiwan is is doing here
right now.
It it seems to be a bit of a cushion.
But, then again, look at China tech
right now. You are seeing the likes of
Alibaba, Tencent, Baidu all falling more
than 1 to 2% there. Baidu taking it more
on the chin here this morning. Uh and
RMB is still slightly on the weaker
side, but still we're talking about 683
levels here right now. But, yeah, Hang
Seng see more bigger moves potentially
than onshore markets here today. We're
down about 1%. So, tech seems to be
still dragging things lower in Hong
Kong. Uh you know, oil still remains to
be once again that bright spot. You take
a look at how energy stocks are doing
here this morning. And there you go.
Mixed picture, but mostly higher with
PetroChina, China Oil Fuel Services, and
CNOOC to the upside. And we're watching
travel stocks as well. So, this happened
on uh Friday here Friday night where you
had regulators summon the likes of
trip.com, Meituan, and others over what
they call these train ticket grabbing.
So, basically using bots to secure train
tickets.
So, now China has banned these platforms
from using these high frequency bots.
That's why you're seeing the likes of
trip and some of these travel stocks
heading lower this morning, Dave. Yeah,
okay. Against the backdrop of equity
markets that are somewhat
repricing some premium back in, not to
the extent of several weeks ago.
Asian equities coming up on your
screens. You have European futures and
US futures. It's worth pointing out that
most if all There we go, in Taiwan,
right? The point I was just about to
make that we are coming up lows of the
session across most equity markets. In
fact, on Taiwan itself, at these levels,
we are actually at record highs, right?
So, we did that I think on Friday. And
as you can see, so this AI story that
we've talked about as well is continuing
to provide some support to markets where
that I get that presence is most
pronounced. You're seeing a lot of
diversion among the Asia markets, right?
I think Taiwan you mentioned near
records at records now. Singapore is
also near records as well. They've seen
sort of as this war haven as well, that
market. But, then again, take a look at
what's going on Southeast Asia and in
India, for example, those outflows in
India
actually have a chance of surpassing the
records that we saw last year. Just
given what we've been seeing the last
couple weeks or so. Our next guest says
that Asia is still vulnerable to
prolonged disruptions to Middle East
energy supply it faces a knock-on impact
on inflation and growth. Joining us now
from Singapore is Isaac Tham, portfolio
manager at Aberdeen Asian Income Fund.
Isaac, it's great to have you on the
program.
Can you first tell us a bit more about,
you know, it seems like we're back to
this $100 oil reality in some ways,
but but equity markets seem to be moving
on or trying to move on. Do you think
that right now equity markets, I mean,
where do we stand right now? Do you
think that we're still cushioned by the
whole AI story in some ways in Asia?
What what's the outlook now?
Hi, good morning. I think there are
there many stories in Asia to be
positive about. Obviously, we're
digesting a lot of information that has
come on overnight.
But, you know, if you want to put a
positive spin on it, you could say that
this move is one in many, which is which
ends up in de-escalation. I think the US
has been pretty clear of their intent
going forward. So, let's see how we get
there. But, I think right now we also
should look at the long term, right? I
think it is quite difficult or almost
impossible to predict you know,
geopolitics and and the prices of oil.
But, we think about it in three
different scenarios. And based on these
scenarios, we we invest in the long run.
So, the first scenario obviously is we
get back to where we came from,
normalization scenario. The second
scenario is that conflict risk continues
to dominate, and that's actually our
base case. And then the last scenario is
a bear case, which would be
you know, we get into stagflation, which
is which is not in our base case. So,
let's focus on on where we think things
will land. So, we think that
you know, conflict risk will continue to
dominate. So, oil prices would stay
higher for longer, commodity prices will
also stay higher for longer. That would
cause a little bit of inflation, but at
the same time, it will also reduce
global growth. You know, let's not be
alarmed here because when we say reduce
global growth, I was still talking about
roughly a 3%
you know, growth rate globally, and
that's far from stagflation. So, that's
that's how we we look at things and how
we we invest accordingly. So, still okay
here.
Right. Isaac, specifically you guys run
you and the team run of course an income
strategy.
Have you noticed a How is How have
attitudes towards that specific outlet
changed the last several weeks? Have
things Have things improved or has it
gone the opposite way?
I think things have improved. So, if you
look at the income strategy we run as
well as the broader Aberdeen funds,
we do remain positive on semiconductors
and things that are driven by AI, right?
And then at the same time, we have
a few countries embarking on
what we call value up initiatives,
right? And the the best case for this
and best example for this is South
Korea. The The government has put a
banner up saying corporate value up,
we're going to return the right amount
of income and and capital returns to to
shareholders, and that's going to lift
valuations. But, this is just South
Korea. I think a lot of other countries
have gotten busy
and with with the same theme. So, even
in China we're seeing value up stories
play out, especially in the consumer
space.
And even places like Singapore, we're
also seeing value up happening in
various companies.
Yeah, I mean, the the dividend play has
certainly been a popular one,
particularly in China as well. I'm just
wondering, have you seen any sort of
impact to those dividends given the
uncertainty out in the macro front?
Yeah. I think you know, barring that
stagflation scenario that I I mentioned,
dividends remain very very strong. So,
as you know, a lot of Chinese corporates
have just released full year numbers,
and they're about to release
first quarter numbers as well. And after
releasing their full year numbers, we
actually were surprised the market was
surprised by the dividend some of these
companies have announced. So, take
Chinese consumer companies for example,
a lot of the companies that are
privately run have dividend payout
ratios over 60%, 70% sometimes. And
we have stocks in our portfolio where
they're paying out 100%. So, just look
back 5 years, I think you would never
believe that Chinese corporates were
actually able to return almost all their
earnings, backed by strong free cash
flows by the way,
you know, in in today's market.
Okay. Talk to us then about where
in terms of just so we have yet to see,
and not to say that we will, yet to see
changes to payouts. Are there certain
sectors that stand out here on both
sides, right? Where you think payouts
could increase, and because of this
energy shock where we might actually see
the opposite happen and corporates maybe
hold their cash closer to their to their
chests?
Right. So, I think let's just backtrack
a little bit and you know,
maybe tell you a little bit of the the
sources of total returns that we see in
the market today. So, I think the first
area is like you mentioned, AI and and
the semiconductor chain, the picks and
shovels. You know, in Asia, our
semiconductor companies really are the
backbone for for global AI. We enable
global AI, and and without the Asian
companies, particularly the North Asian
companies, you know, AI in its current
form would not exist. So, we see
tremendous growth opportunities backed
by hyperscaler demand. And and we see
that this is a very long-term
opportunity. At the same time, companies
in semiconductor companies in Taiwan
have been a very great source of income,
right? They strike a very good balance
between
being a quality franchise, being able to
compound earnings over long periods of
time, and and also striking that balance
between returning income to shareholders
like you and I. So, I think Taiwanese
semiconductor companies as well as South
Korean
memory chip makers are good avenue to
tap both quality as well as income and
growth. You you almost have your cake
and eat it when it comes to
semiconductor companies in North Asia.
So, that's one avenue. And then the
second avenue is like I mentioned,
Chinese consumer companies and certain
industrial companies
in China, right? So, I'm sure everybody
is quite familiar with the rising
consumer in China, the rising middle
class. Yes, the recovery recently has
been quite K-shaped, and not just in
China, but if you look globally, you see
a
K-shaped consumer led recovery. And but
that's going to benefit some Chinese
consumer companies, and we think that
increasingly they're
well run in terms of management quality,
in terms of the cash flows that they
generate, and then just in terms of
their entire business franchise. And if
you look at some of these Chinese
consumer companies, they're trading at
low mid-teens PE multiple. So, that in
my view is is very attractive,
especially if you take a long-term
perspective.
You mentioned about how we're getting
closer to this the earning season, and
maybe we'll hear more from CEOs about
this impact of $100 oil. I mean,
do we need to start discounting the
impact this is going to really have on
earnings or even on pricing power for
some of these companies here? And and
should I look at things like inflation
beneficiaries now?
Yeah. So, what we do is really look at
the companies we cover and really
discuss what you just mentioned with
corporates, and and we have over the
last couple months, and I think you
know, it really depends on how long this
conflict continues, right? So, it's it's
okay if if oil stays high for, you know,
a few months, but then it's not so okay
if oil continues to stay high for years,
right? Hence, you know, that stagflation
scenario that I mentioned. So, you know,
we just talked to a few
companies in in in China quite recently
after their results, and I think a lot
of them highlight that there's
sufficient inventory in in the system,
right? So, if you look at
you know, I'm just going to go quite
into detail here, but if you go look at
apparel companies and the nylon that
they use that goes into
the the clothes that we wear,
a lot of
a lot of industry experts, you know,
they they think that that's about 5
months, right? And then if you look at
the the macro basis in terms of the oil
reserves that some of these countries
hold, not just China,
but across the Asian space, I think
North Asia is
pretty safe. They can essentially hold
their breath for for longer, right? I
think China has about 6 months of of oil
reserves. Korea has
a few more months than that. And then,
you know, really where the risk lies
would be places like India and places
like countries in in Southeast Asia. I
think that they're more at risk in terms
of how long they can hold their breath
for. So, I think those are things we
have to be cognizant of.
Yeah, supply chain resilience finally
has a face.
Can I ask you something? So, the fact
sheet I have in front of me on the fund
is as of before the war started.
How have you guys done? How has the fund
done since since the war began? And have
you done any specific major adjustments
to your exposure over the last 7 weeks?
So, we we do
Well, performance has been has been
good, right? So, I think for income
funds, we really want to strike that
balance between income today and growth
tomorrow, right? The core belief is that
Asia is the heart of global growth, and
I think there's no reason to believe
otherwise. But, you want to you know,
things don't move in a straight line,
and I think that's probably an
understatement if you look at events
over the past month and a half.
But, we try to straighten out that line
as much as possible by investing in
quality franchises at reasonable
reasonable valuations, right? So, I
think that has, uh, you know, uh,
generated, uh, decent performance over
the last three three months.
Isaac, yeah, we'll leave it there.
[laughter] Now, I was about to say
almost like, uh,
uh, reading from the website, but yeah,
well, well, well,
>> [laughter]
>> well, we'll read between the lines on
that answer, Isaac. Thank you. But,
yeah.
>> Yeah, Isaac down there, portfolio
manager at Aberdeen Asian Income Fund
joining us at of Singapore. Coming up,
China unveils what it calls goodwill
[music] measures towards Taiwan as the
island's opposition leader makes a rare
visit to Beijing. We have the details
next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Right, uh, one group that's actually
doing quite well in these equity
markets, Taiwan tourism related names.
Everything from Lion Travel Service to
Far
Glory Hotel, all doing quite well. I one
I wonder why. Well, there was this big
trip that happened over the weekend,
right? So, uh, China has announced a
series of policy measures to
demonstrate, quote, goodwill towards
Taiwan following a landmark meeting
between President Xi Jinping and the
island's opposition leader. Let's bring
in our China correspondent, Min-Min Loh,
as of course we wrap up this trip. But,
you know, beyond just the travel sector,
I mean, there there are some outbound
travel, uh, to Taiwan, but tell me a
little more about the other measures
that China's promoting now.
>> Yeah, it's quite a significant package.
They came up with a 10-point policy uh,
package to try to boost ties with
Taiwan. So, among them are some
people-to-people exchanges including
youth exchanges, uh, resuming direct
passenger flights between certain
Chinese cities and Taiwan, allowing the
resumption of individual travel as well,
but only for people from Shanghai and
Fujian, though. Um, and these had been
suspended since 2019. Uh, there are also
a bunch of trade measures as well. For
example, allowing easier access for
Taiwanese agricultural goods, fishery
goods, uh, and so on. There are also
some infrastructural, uh, cooperation
sort of uh, plans such as, uh, promoting
the building of bridges between Fujian
province and the Taiwanese islands of
Matsu and Kinmen. These are some of the
closest islands to China and allowing
Kinmen to share in this new airport that
Xiamen has. So, this is the message that
China is trying to send, right? That
there will be incentives, there will be
rewards if Taiwan chooses to align
itself with China. And it's the same
message that Chang Li-wen, the
opposition leader, has been saying that
she says, you know, engaging with China
is the best way of deterrence for
Taiwan. What's been the official
response from the DPP government? So,
the DPP, obviously from the get-go, they
were already against this trip. They
said that Chang Li-wen doesn't have the
authority to negotiate on behalf of
Taiwan. They're saying that, yes, uh,
the the DPP is willing to negotiate with
China, but only, uh, not at the expense
of its national interests and of
democracy as well. And it's saying that
essentially China is using this trip to
sow division among the Taiwanese people.
That these policy uh, packages, uh, they
are a form of coercion because the
incentives can be withdrawn at any time
as China sees fit. And of course,
against this backdrop is this discussion
in Taiwanese parliament, right? With the
DPP trying to push through a record
defense budget of 40 billion, uh,
dollars. And, uh, that's something that
the Kuomintang party, the opposition
party, has been pushing against. And it
also has implications for Trump-Xi's,
uh, meeting as well because, uh,
President Trump has reportedly been
delaying the announcement of this record
arms deal with Taiwan in order not to
rock the boat with China. And meanwhile,
Taiwan is is now planning drills as well
in anticipation of any sort of Chinese
blockade. Can you tell us more about
that?
>> Yeah, and this is coming more to the
forefront now with the Strait of Hormuz
being blockaded. Of course, the Strait
of Taiwan is a little bit different
because if ships can't pass through the
Strait of Taiwan, they can still sail
around the eastern coast of Taiwan. But,
of course, the further they go into the
Pacific, the greater the delays, the
greater the cost. And so, Taiwan is now
starting the first ever joint drills,
whether it's land transportation drills
to ensure movement of supplies within
Taiwan, but also naval drills escorting
some of these LNG tankers, oil tankers
that are sailing around the island. And
it's warning that any blockade of Taiwan
is going to be a blockade for the entire
region. So, countries like South Korea,
like, uh, the Philippines, like Japan,
need need they need to look out as well.
And Taiwan is saying that Japan and
other countries, uh, it expects them to
eventually join Taiwan in these drills
as well. And I think this is important
because it's sort of testing Beijing's
resolve here. Is Beijing retaliate with
its own drills? It sort of then negates
the positive momentum that they have
built so far, right? So soon after Chang
Li-wen's trip to China.
Right, Min-Min, thank you so much.
Min-Min Loh, there, our China
correspondent. Right, let's get you an
update of some other big stories we're
tracking. Of course, some, uh, big ones
in the geopolitical front over the
weekend. Hungary, that's a big one, of
course. The next prime minister there,
uh, Peter Magyar, is calling on the
country's president, [music]
uh, top justices and chief prosecutor to
resign. That's after his landslide
[music]
election victory. Now, he accuses them
of betraying their responsibilities by
prioritizing [music]
their political loyalties to Viktor
Orbán, who has conceded defeat after 16
[music] years in office. Now, the result
is a blow to President Trump and
Russia's Vladimir Putin, who had sought
to keep his longest-serving [music]
prime minister in power.
We won not small, but big, very, very
big.
Together, we changed the Orbán regime.
[music]
Together, we liberated Hungary. We took
our homeland back.
Now, in Peru, Keiko Fujimori is poised
to advance [music] to her fourth
consecutive presidential run-off
according to initial exit polls from
Sunday's election. Uh, two polls give
[music] Fujimori almost 17% of the vote,
but the election was marred by such
disarray that her opponent may not be
clear for [music] days. Now, the
national electoral body is extending
voting until Monday in the capital,
Lima, after lengthy delays at polling
stations where ballot [music] papers
arrived late. Right, uh, just, uh,
reminder that we are headed into the
next 12 hours of, I guess, semi, uh,
range-bound trade as we approach, of
course, that, uh, blockade. 10:00 a.m.
Eastern Time on Monday was the time
given, um, out of the US. Watch for that
very, very closely, of course.
>> Yeah, you know, obviously you're seeing
oil back above $100 or $101, close to
$102 for Brent here right now. But,
certainly this next move by President
Trump to potentially blockade the Strait
of Hormuz, uh, does that add more
troubles for Asia already so energy
dependent, right? So, certainly that's
going to be the one key question for
this region moving forward here. You
know, is the US really going to follow
through on this naval blockade or is
this just part of the whole negotiating
process here right now? We still got
about, um,
10 or 12 hours to decide what that
means. A reminder, of course, of our new
online feature, which is the Bloomberg
video hub. Subscribers can explore live
streaming, news and interviews, and all
of our Bloomberg TV shows,
documentaries, reporter analysis,
[music] and more. Make sure to check it
out at bloomberg.com/videos.
>> [music]
>> Uh, we're looking at two specific names
on the back of [music] some shifts in
the thinking from the sell-side here.
So, Morgan [music] Stanley on Bilibili,
and I think Goldman is in Sinotruk, uh,
upgraded at Morgan Stanley. Uh, we're up
1.4 [music] in that. Sinotruk is better
4%. That's really on the back of this
also this upgrade coming through by
Goldman. [music] Uh, the benchmarks
looking like this on your screens. We're
actually doing okay relative [music] to
the, uh, the news flow out there.
Uh, lots more ahead in the next hour
>> [music]
>> of the China show.
>> I don't care if they come back or not.
If they don't come back, I'm fine. Their
military is gone and their missiles are
largely depleted. The, uh, manufacturing
capability for missiles and drones is
largely defeated.
Iran is in very bad shape.
I think they're very desperate. We had a
meeting that lasted 21 hours. We
understand the situation better than
anybody.
And Iran is in very bad shape.
And and just so you understand, Iran
will not have a nuclear weapon.
Remember, their promise was that they
were going to open the Hormuz Strait.
They didn't do it. They lied.
President Donald Trump there speaking
earlier at Joint Base Andrews as he
arrived there and really telling
reporters, this is after, of course,
hours this announcement of the US will
begin a full naval blockade of the
Strait of Hormuz just about exactly 12
hours from now. So, Monday a.m. Eastern
Time. Is the US going to follow through?
Certainly that's going to be one key
question. But, you take a look at how
equity markets are doing here in Asia.
There's a whisper of that they've moved
on, right? I mean, they're seeing some
pressure across equities. Oil is back
above 100 bucks. Uh, but certainly, uh,
when it comes to, you know, the
sensitivity to these headlines, uh, I
think you you do see the market moving
on and really seeing and and a lot of
questions, right? Is is really the
bottom really now in when it comes to
the Asian stocks and all. Yeah, I think
one of the things that's emerged since
in the last few hours, so so baking in
both the failed talks and the
and this coming blockade, if in fact
that's where we're headed, is is that
actually the least aggressive option of
the other options that were on the
table. Which was which was cargo and and
you know,
more aggressive ground
ground presence there from from from
troops, but we'll we'll see. I think the
other thing too that we have to talk
about is how will Iran then respond and
view that any blockade as an act of if
they view it as an act of war, as
Jennifer Welch was pointing out, because
if they do, then that would constitute
the
the a violation of the ceasefire from
last weekend that would then mean
attacks on regional infrastructure and
what have you. And we're effectively
then back to near to square one then we
are
currently. Okay, benchmarks, so as
Yvonne was pointing out, so we are
coming off highs on oil. Brent was up
over 8% at one point. We're up now to
seven. We're still looking at losses
across most parts of the Asia Pacific
with the exception of Taiwan which has
been hovering between gains and losses.
At 35 420, I should just tell you that
is at in fact at a record high there on
the benchmark itself.
Although we are still up for a rough 12
hours or so indicated by what's
happening in Europe there.
>> It's interesting, right? When Taiwan is
flat, when when you take a look at what
happened with TSMC and the monthly
numbers that we got on Friday, you you
tally it up for the quarter and it was
still a pretty good and decent beat when
it comes to the quarterly sales side of
things. And really kind of bodes well, I
guess, when they do report earnings that
are on this week for TSMC. And really
does it kind of match what we saw with
the Samsung? We saw that eight-fold
increase when it came
to earnings there. So certainly is that
AI demand still there despite the this
energy sort of roiling that certainly is
the big
story here. And you take a look at when
it comes to, you know, European futures,
US futures are still quite to the
downside here this morning. It's
interesting with European natural gas
futures as well, which did just recently
expand their trading hours to 21 versus
a lot shorter before. And we really woke
up to that reality of, you know, once
again, seeing a spike up and those
inflationary pressures come through once
again. Yeah, yields up and I wonder now
with the these big talks in Washington,
the IMF spring meeting, how is that
going to be viewed against this backdrop
here
today. Okay, let's get into the details
right now and we are moving into week
seven, if I'm not mistaken here, of this
ongoing conflict. Let's bring in
Joumana Bercetche, of course, out of
Dubai, our Horizons Middle East and
Africa anchor standing by for us.
Joumana
week seven, you're at the center of
this.
Hope you've had some version of a
restful weekend, if that if that is, of
course, at all
something that you've been you've had.
But yes, then take us through the
latest. What stands out to you?
Well, I mean, look, there there's a lot
to unpack from this weekend. It was an
eventful week weekend and expectations
were actually very, very high. And it
was a tall order to expect that the US
and Iran could come together and achieve
some sort of a breakthrough given how
how far away their initial starting
positions were before we even got to
Islamabad. And I think what has emerged
from this is a marathon round of
discussions, as we know. Clearly, the
the knee-jerk reaction was to be
disappointed in that the two sides
weren't able to come up together with a
sustainable deal. But actually, if you
listen to some of the comments,
especially even President Trump's tweet
social post yesterday, he did say that
there was a lot of overlap in terms of
areas where they did agree.
And he said that, you know, the fact
that the the discussions went on for so
long is a constructive signal. But there
are two elements where clearly there has
not been enough to bridge the divide.
Number one is on the subject of nuclear
weapons. is something that JD Vance
reiterated before he flew back home. He
said that they have not received
sufficient assurances from the Iranians
that they will not go on to develop a
nuclear weapon and also not develop the
tools to do so. So it's not just about
the commitment not to develop a nuclear
weapon, but also to relinquish the
tools. I e. maybe give up those
centrifuges or give back the highly
enriched uranium that they're sitting
on. And then the second point, which is
the major one that
also, you know, with this big
announcement from President Trump
yesterday, is what to do about the
straits. Because six weeks ago, the
strait wasn't even a point of leverage
for Iran. It has become as a new point
of leverage throughout the course of
this war. Clearly an unacceptable
situation. The US quite clearly are now
trying to do something about it with
President Trump announcing this blockade
that is set to go into effect in about
12 hours time. So that is a new element.
And from the perspective of the region,
I will just say, you know, at least this
time he's not making
apocalyptic, sorry. Apocalyptic threats
about ending civilization or, you know,
sending mass amounts of destruction
towards power plants and civilian
infrastructure. This time around, it
does appear as though there is a
strategy from the US administration's
perspective to help wrest back one of
Iran's key points of leverage before
they enter what possibly could be
another round of negotiations.
Okay, so maybe still
a bit more measured in terms of the
response. But, you know, how will the
Iranians
you know, interpret this sort of naval
blockage of the Strait of Hormuz? You
know, Jennifer Welch from our BE team
says they might see this as an act of
war and they may not fold. What do you
think Iran's response will be?
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
So so far, I will say that the ceasefire
still does appear to be holding. In the
last 12 hours overnight, there hasn't
been any reported activity at least in
the region. So at least for the time
being, we can say that that is being
honored. Now, they're clearly not
pleased with it. I saw a comment that
the speaker of the parliament, Mohammad
Galibaf, and also one of the lead
negotiators this weekend put up
overnight warning the US that if they
thought $4 a gallon was bad, just wait
until it gets to five, six dollars. And
that ultimately this blockade will end
up affecting the US consumer. But
if you look at, you know, anyway, the
amount of ships that were passing
through the straits, we're talking about
less than half a dozen every day and
most of them were Iranian length. So if
the US are successful at following
through from this, they'll achieve three
things. Number one, cutting off a key
lifeline for Iran itself in terms of the
revenue that they would have been
enjoying from getting their oil through
the straits. Number two, perhaps putting
pressure on Asia and specifically China
at this point in terms of putting
going through them to put on, you know,
extra pressure on Iran to come to the
negotiating table. And the third point
clearly would be to help wrest back this
point of leverage that Iran seems to be
holding not just over the US, but over
the global economy. And so that's the
calculus from the US's perspective. The
risk, of course, though, is that, you
know, this sort of deteriorates into a
naval conflict and Iran starts actually
firing at US Navy. We have to see how it
plays out. But for the time being, the
ceasefire is still holding up.
Okay, and let's let's hope it stays that
way. Joumana, thank you. Joumana
Bercetche there, our anchor of Horizons
Middle East and and Africa. Just ahead
here on shows, in fact, we'll just have
a closer look really at what has
actually gone through the Strait of
Hormuz, [music] which types of vessels
in terms of relative day-to-day,
week-to-week traffic, whether or not
that's actually improving. We're also
[music] assessing the impact really on
fertilizer, agriculture, Asia's rice
farmers as transport costs are just
through the roof. [music] A closer look
at that specific threat to really the
staple crop here for the Asia Pacific.
[music] That's ahead. This is the China
show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Good morning. Welcome back. You're
watching the China show. Okay, couple of
questions markets [music] are grappling
with given the failed talks in the
weekend. One is what do we know about
this
blockade that was announced a few hours
back. Number two is if in fact it
happens, what how will Iran respond? And
what is happening across the strait in
terms of activity going into, well, what
went into those talks, what happened
after the talks failed, and where are we
in as far as vessel traffic is is
concerned. And how will Asia be
affected, right? In terms of because a
lot of what goes through there, not just
energy, things like container ships, dry
bulk, really just head to the Asia
Pacific. And how will allies also
respond
to any blockade there. Okay, so here's
what we know. We've been tracking three
specific vessels over the weekend as
these three have actually gone inbound
or were headed inbound from the Gulf of
Oman
into into the Persian Gulf over the
weekend, right? And as things then
stalled and as news flow then trickled
through, two of the three actually made
a U-turn. One actually went all the way
through. Now, off the two
that did stop and make a U-turn,
ended a holding pattern going into the
Strait of Hormuz. One actually, the last
couple of hours, actually then made
managed to go through. And so you do see
those two, of course, here on your
screens. The one the one other is here.
Now just to also mention late last week
you were also tracking two Chinese bound
vessels that up until the weekend were
stuck going outward. We now understand
those two Costco vessels are now through
the straight into the direction of the
Asia Pacific. Okay, what time is it now?
10:12 in the morning here in Hong Kong.
So in less than 12 hours from now, we
understand based on what the US military
says that they will they will conduct a
blockade of the Strait of Hormuz. And
the reason that's important two things
is because that blockade, according to
the statement coming through out of the
US Central Command, will be enforced
impartially
against vessels of all nations or
departing Iranian ports and coastal
areas. In other words, it doesn't you
know what your signal is, what your
destination, who the owner is will
likely not matter to the US Navy. The
reason that is important, too, is also
one of the conditions of the ceasefire
is how will Iran then respond if in fact
we do get that blockade, right? Because
if they respond and see this as as an
act of war, that then might constitute
the end of this very fragile ceasefire
that ended that started last week. That
is just to say again, we're almost back
to square one here
in as far as the Strait of Hormuz is
concerned, if not in greater leverage.
Okay, what have we seen? So we have
vessel traffic data
as far as what goes through there
bidirectional. So that covers tankers,
bulk commercial cargo, and dry cargo.
That's normal. That's when the war
started. This is where we are. And a
closer look in fact at the pickup in the
last 48 hours actually shows you this
that this is a closed up version of the
bottom end of that chart. And what we
have now is actually the highest number
of vessel traffic through the Strait of
Hormuz over the weekend. Let me just
give you the numbers in case that's not
clear to you. Five tankers, one bulk,
six cargo, and one dry cargo. That takes
us into just to add things up. That's a
stacked histogram. So put everything
together, that's over 25 is the number
that we have that's based on real-time
numbers, 24-hour rolling data over the
last 30 minutes or so. But again, if
that looks big and visually compared to
the last few days because it is, but
again, if you zoom back out and you
reset, that is just a trickle to what
we're used to on a normal that almost
just disappears. [laughter]
Just looking at that. But yes, we're
looking at any incremental change to
this.
>> Incremental, right? You we talked about
it with our team. And then we it's
really kind of like vessel by vessel how
they're tracking this here right now,
whether it's the two Costco ones you
mentioned. Even when it came to those
Iran sanctioned oil that was heading to
India. Whether that goes through as
well, whether India takes it. Certainly,
it's so granular to that point. Great
show and tell there, Dave. Let's get to
>> [laughter]
>> let's get to our team who's been
covering all this
vessel traffic, all the like, oil flows.
Steven Sachinski who leads our Asia
energy coverage for Bloomberg.
I'm sure it's been a very busy weekend
for you once again.
Walk us through what you're watching out
for for the next 12 hours or so.
I mean, I think, you know, we'll it is a
trickle of ships. And and I love, you
know, I love a newsman in front of a
screen showing the ships, showing the
data. That's really good. It's
compelling.
But there were people in the market who
were excited about this. I'm I you know,
I'm I'm not trading it, but I'm one of
the people who's excited because the
more ships that go through, while it is
a trickle, it does show progress. Now,
will that progress continue in 12 hours
when Trump's blockade begin begins or
will we see that pullback again? Because
there was some hope in the market that
as the ships go through, things slowly
get back to normal. And maybe we don't
go back to the pre-war levels of 135
plus ships
on a daily basis. Maybe we're we're half
of that. But still, half of half of that
is better than nothing. And the market
needs the oil, the market needs the gas
and the LNG. But will Trump's blockade
undo everything that kind of started?
Will will we see ships begin to turn
around again in the Persian Gulf? Will
we see the Trump administration go after
ships like Trump said in his Truth
Social post, go after ships that
actually paid the toll to to Iran? Would
they go after Chinese ships? Would they
go after Iranian sanctioned Iranian
ships? I mean, those are all the
questions I think the market wants to
understand.
But at the moment, there is this you
know, prices have jumped, but there is
this slight calm in the sense that Trump
isn't threatening any more attacks on
Iran at the moment. And it seems that
the tension and the attacks within the
region has at least calmed down over the
last few days.
Steven, how how do we now gauge if in
fact we are headed from somewhat of a
shock to this relative stasis to
hopefully
the supply shortage, especially in Asia
Pacific, leads to somewhat of a
deviation there.
What specific signals or indicators do
you suggest we watch in the physical
market just to get a better sense of
whether or not the likes of India, the
Philippines, and many other economies in
this part of the world are actually
seeing more oil come their way.
So I'm going to I'm going to take I'm
going to zoom out very quickly to to
dated Brent, which is the physical Brent
price, which is trading much higher than
the futures price. 120, 130, sometimes
140 dollars in the last week compared to
about 100 dollars right now for Brent
futures. I think that's one of the
benchmarks to watch to see where where
it is because we had a great story over
the weekend from my colleagues across
around the world saying that refiners
are kind of scrambling to get shipments
that are available right now that are on
the water. And they're paying a pretty
big premium to get it. So that's that's
kind of the the price point to look at I
think if you want to see where the
physical market is. Going to the ground,
I think then you start to see how are
refiners actually operating. Right? What
where where are where are the facilities
that are offline? Are they resuming
operations? Who who is getting the gas
curbed because there's another great
thing over the weekend from from one of
my colleagues about
India. In the immediate aftermath of the
war, you had a lot of fertilizer plants
in India curb their supply. They were
curbing the gas that they were getting.
The government was curbing the gas that
the the facilities were getting because
there was not enough LNG liquefied
natural gas coming in. Now the
government has been able to figure out a
way to get that gas supply back to 100%
to the fertilizer facilities by curbing
gas supply to other other parts of the
economy that maybe don't need it as
much. That's the power sector. So for
India, they could go to coal instead. So
look at the fuel replacement. Look who's
getting the gas and the in the oil.
That's what you need to really monitor
going forward.
All right, Steven. Thank you, Steven
Sachinski there who leads our Asia
energy coverage. Obviously, the impact
this has on Asian economies is going to
be quite
significant really. When you take a look
at what China is concerned, too, right?
Bloomberg Economics says, "Well, China
has cushions against the oil shock from
the Iran war. Beijing is likely to step
up stimulus within limits." For more,
let's bring in our chief Asia economist,
Chang Shu. She's with us here right now.
You're saying the war has increased the
need for more stimulus in China now.
What sort of impact are you seeing
potentially now? Yes, so so at this
point there's a lot of uncertainties we
we have talked about.
In in terms of China's
hits from from the war,
the direct impacts could be limited even
on the inflation side.
But the major impact will come from the
export side. We we just released to talk
about China, we have to talk about the
global context. We we just released our
global forecast updates. It's our
global forecast. But it's a it's a
downgrade of the growth
projection for the whole world. We will
see the even in our baseline scenario,
the
global growth could drop to below 3%
compared to kind of 3.4% or so in in
2025.
So given that and China's exports drag
could be
our calculations
0.4% of GDP.
And in the baseline, the government is
likely to to lift
the fiscal stimulus enough to offset the
the drag from growth. So so I I the
baseline, we don't change our forecast.
We still say for the year as a whole is
4.5%.
That's the bottom of the official target
range. But in the more severe case, the
government might not
be able to or or is unwilling to fully
offset the the drag from the global
economy.
What would they be willing to If it's
not everything, what would they be
willing to offset and what part of the
toolbox do we look at to offset? Yeah,
so
in the more severe case, I mean, these
days you have to work on scenarios. I
mean, in our baseline, we we see the oil
prices peaking at around 110 for the
second quarter and gradually decline. So
that's sort of more
sort of by comparison a more benign
case. And that's the figures I just
talked about. But in the more severe
case, the oil prices could could hike up
to 170. And the total drag on China's
growth could be 0.8% close to 1
percentage point. And that would imply
more than 1 trillion
yuan stimulus I
So that would be greater than the
the historical
additional budget budgets the government
will have to put in. So we we think the
government maybe used the fiscal side to
offset
somewhat, but in the meantime using
other means for example, you know,
control prices, cap energy prices and
and control exports energy exports and
and so on. So you will have to be a
combination of of tools to to really
cushion the economy.
Changshu, thank you.
Changshu there, our chief Asia economist
at Bloomberg Economics. For our
subscribers, you can turn to your
terminal for more on the story. TLIV go
is the function for the latest updates
here, and there are many updates I
should note. Commentary analysis as well
from our expert editors here and
journalists here in the newsroom. Lots
more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right. Welcome back. There's a price
[music] hike
second quarter and as far as rare earths
are concerned. Um so
specifically rare earth concentrate
prices will be raised to 38804.
That's RMB per ton. That's based on this
relevant price mechanism according to
Friday filings back going into the
weekend and it's playing out of course
as you can see across the big players
in the Chinese space. It represents get
this an increase of about 44% from Q1
which is the largest
hike from the largest quarterly hike
since pricing mechanism back in 20 23.
So there is a lot more PPI and wholesale
price inflation coming to the system.
This is of course one of them.
Stocks across the Asia Pacific exposed
to the energy space and you have your
upstream players given this pop we're
seeing [music] in oil prices today.
6 to 8% on Brent and West Texas. We're 7
and a half percent on Brent right now
>> [music]
>> and it's playing out across the big
names across the Asia Pacific. Inpex up
3% headed into [music] the Japanese
lunch break. We'll recap what it looks
like on the Nikkei the topics and
there's a rise in yield in the JGB space
just ahead. This is the China [music]
show.
>> [music]
>> 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are headed to that lunch break in just
[music] a moment. You are seeing Asia
Pacific stocks to the downside here
today just given of course the latest
when it comes to President Trump. We're
just talking less than 12 hours away
from this full naval blockade of the
Strait of Hormuz. So yeah, stocks are
starting to lose a little bit more
momentum here especially in Tokyo. We're
down about 1% for the Nikkei. 159 levels
are approaching that 160 level for
dollar yen once again and look at how
the 10-year JGB yield is at. We're up
three basis points at the highest level
we've seen since 1997.
So once again, inflation fears are
coming back into the bond market here
Dave. But yes, as you take a look at,
you know, the tech space and the like,
maybe there's still some comfort in what
we're seeing
in the Asia Pacific.
>> Yeah, I mean the fact that I think
Taiwan and
I'm almost certain lots of people missed
this on the weekend. Actually, I think
closed at a record high on Friday,
right? And right now with this down
drafting across the region Taiwan's
actually flat and I think we were
talking about this during the show,
right? TSMC came out with their monthly
sales numbers and put together I think
the third, you know, three months were
actually quite good. Yeah. On on the
TSMC side which I guess underscores the
point and the Samsung earnings was up
eightfold which was actually something
that was just unreal when it first
broke. I is that a fake number? 50
trillion, but it turned out that was the
one that they actually managed to get
that across the line.
>> Yeah, I mean the the whole sort of
concern before was does this spike up in
energy prices lead to this AI capex boom
to falter in some way? And I think we
look at some of the results so far from
Samsung from TSMC. Not not quite. Um the
demand picture is still very strong. If
you take a look at what you're seeing
with with TSMC and they report later on
this week as well.
>> That's right. Yeah, in fact just on that
note, right? Earlier on about an hour
back we did speak with Aberdeen the
Isaac Hong who oversees their in income
fund in the Asia Pacific and here's how
he had to phrase the AI conversation
from their specific perspective.
In Asia, our semiconductor companies are
really are the backbone for for global
AI. We enable global AI and and without
the Asian companies, particularly the
North Asian companies, you know, AI in
its current form will not exist. So we
see a tremendous growth opportunities
backed by hyperscaler demand and and we
see that this is a very long-term
opportunity.
All right, let's bring in the bull
himself, Dan Ives, global head of
technology research at Wedbush
Securities. He says he's been seeing a
major focus among investors when it
comes to yeah, North Asia, right? Owning
Taiwan, Korea, China hardware players
versus what we're seeing in some of the
US software names. Dan, it's great to
have you back in the region. Yeah, is it
still going to be hardware Asia over the
software side of things in the US? Is
that trade still still
>> Look, right now it's do not enter zone
in terms of software and I think that's
the wrong move in terms of from an
investor perspective, but you see
whether it's Asia investors we speak
with US, everyone's focus on semi's
hardware, memory. And you talk about
Taiwan. I mean that look, that
fundamentally right now demand and
supply is 10 to 1. So there's no issue
relative to demand. You have trillions
are going to be spent. I think the big
issue right now is just the Anthropic
goose fears. And that really right now
being the black cloud over software
companies and that's what you're seeing
play out, but I ultimately believe that
will create the opportunities in
software in this jittery backdrop that
obviously we're going through. Let's
talk about that. I like how you phrase
it, ghost fears. I guess it depends if
you believe ghosts are real or not.
How do I need to be looking at that? Is
that a
a blanket threat that I think you think
we should ignore or how do I need to be
framing that new in a more nuanced way?
>> Anthropic said they were going after
eyeglasses, Warby Parker would be down
50% today. So I think part of the issue
is you have to
separate between fiction and real. Now
look, are there some software companies
that are going to be disintermediated
on bad coding on some of the, you know,
periphery, some of the one-trick ponies?
Yeah.
But are they replacing CrowdStrike,
Palantir? That Palantir that I think
that fictional narrative that we talked
about with Burry, I mean that speaks to
our view. Like that's a huge opportunity
because Palantir I believe is going to
be one of the, you know, the
foundational pieces of the AI
revolution. You got to separate between
announcements and right now it's almost
headline dodgeball with Anthropic
because no matter what they put, stocks
are down 3%, 4%, 5. But I think you have
that will create the opportunities. And
when you talk about in terms of them
going after chips, is that going to
impact Nvidia? Not at all.
>> What did Burry say about that? I missed
that and I couldn't find it. I'm not
sure if I could. So Burry in terms of
Palantir is the view that Anthropic is
going to eat the lunch of Palantir and
then I think quickly deleted the tweet.
>> I see. And the the reality is that
that's that's a fairy tale narrative.
Palantir is whether it's in the US
government, whether it's enterprises,
that that's really the hearts and lungs
right now of the AI revolution. As a
wrapper, Anthropic's important, but the
core data, that's not replacing
Palantir. And I think that's Look,
that's the issue for investors and I
hear you talking about hardware.
Hardware, you know it's clearly who the
winners are, who's playing, you could
argue valuation. Software, because of
Anthropic and because of what we're
going through, that's why you're seeing,
you know, stocks down what, 30% this
year? And I think a lot of those are
almost garage sale prices.
A big hype around
Asia is really what we've been seeing in
China, these AI plays and this sort of
open claw phenomenon.
Um this whole tokenization of, you know,
the fact that China has these sort of
cheap energy that they can export.
Do you think
that that that poses more opportunities
for China? And and is this sort of hype
that we're seeing with open claw in
China? Is is do you think it's
justified? Look, I think there there's
hype, but I think when it comes to
China, the big advantage they have is
energy. Yeah. And especially in areas
like robotics and others. So they're
going at it a different way, but it
speaks to our view. Like when you think
about this AI revolution, just
forgetting like the in, you know, the
geopolitical backdrop right now and the
white knuckle and the headlines that
we're seeing you know, from Iran, if you
think about the trillions being spent,
significant piece in US, but also China.
And that's also why when it comes down
to like the Trump-Xi summit in May, very
very important to start to see
cross-pollination.
Nvidia obviously being very important in
terms of what they sell into China. What
about Tesla in China? How are you
looking at that? Look, it's I mean it's
been uphill battle because of the
competition, because of pricing, but
it's our view like there's some
stabilization, but for Tesla, the whole
focus right now in my view, it's all
about autonomous robotics. It's really
the AI future for Musk. And I think that
is it's a tale of two cities. If you
look at the actual demand story, not
just China, but in Europe and even the
US, it's soft. But the reason we're so
bullish on Tesla, I think it's a
physical AI play. Best physical AI play
in the world, it's Nvidia and Tesla. And
I ultimately too believe that SpaceX
once it goes public, the next step will
be to merge with Tesla.
What's going on in in mag seven now? I
mean they've kind of been in a funk for
about a year or so. I mean I
What do you think is going on? Do you
think it's mostly just sentiment or I
think there's a few things going on. I
think one, Anthropic,
OpenAI, think about all that growth that
they're doing. The view is that that
sucking the oxygen out of Mag 7. I also
think there's just so much confusion in
terms of hyperscale, what the demand is
going to look like, the CapEx build that
we've seen from Meta to Microsoft and
others, when's the monetization
happening? So, we're we're in that gap
and that's why you've seen those stocks
sell off. And then I look, I think
there's just broader worries in terms of
like second, third, fourth derivative in
terms of, you know, are these names
going to define the future? I do believe
I look, I think Mag 7 stocks will have a
renaissance. You cannot have AI
revolution without Mag 7 playing a
piece. But right now, I mean, you know,
I think you look to Hong Kong cab
drivers bearish on Mag 7.
Oh, yes, yes, okay. Not sure if that's a
leading indicator or
or the opposite. Well, the the macro
overlay here doesn't help when you look
at or at the geopolitical overlay on it.
Let me just Let me just look at that,
too. You know, the prospect of Do we get
a rate hike? Do we not get a rate hike?
That certainly doesn't help the fact
that we're even having that
conversation.
Is that an Does that Does that present
an entry point for for Mag 7? So, where
How does this disruption play out in
your view in as far as entry levels or
do I stay clear until this settles?
Right now, it's a perfect storm negative
for tech. From Iran to what they're
doing oil, to potential rate hikes, to
too big to fail, to just everything,
private credit. So, I do believe it
creates
the unique opportunities. Look, the
catastrophists are always going to talk
about what could happen. But I just
think when in my career, going back to
the '90s, in these environments, the
winners, the theme, the secular themes,
that's how you ultimately own them.
That's why you own Microsoft here,
Salesforce, you own Palantir, Nvidia in
terms of what I could argue is one of
the most traded at 15 times. Because
ultimately, when things start to get
better, these stocks rip higher. I think
one key will be a prove it earning
season for tech to show monetization
starting to happen. I think, Dan, the
last time you were in town, we were
talking about, I guess, still the the
big sort of BAT stocks in China.
Now, there's so many names. I don't know
how much you know about Jipu, Mini Max,
all these sort of
startups that have really emerged in the
whole AI race.
How close are you looking at that now?
>> Yeah, we watch them closely. And I still
believe, in my view, I you know, Baba,
Baidu, Tencent. So, I think there's
continued to be, at least the way that
we're playing it in terms of walking the
investors through it. But no doubt, the
emerging landscape, it's no different in
some ways that's happened with Anthropic
and OpenAI in the US market, what's
happened in China. I think we sit here 6
9 months now, you could talk about like
who are going to be the next emerging
technologies. But that's why, as an
investor, you can't just sit here
fearful. I think you got to add risk,
make, you know, sort of bet on the
winners. Because like I said, right now
it is like as negative as the sentiment
is I've seen going back to not just
Liberation Day, but even times of, you
know, COVID relative to the tech trade.
This SpaceX IPO, is there is there a
valuation there that would not make
sense? But or is that just priced for
How would you put it? It's priced for
the future, but how do you How do you
measure something like that?
>> Sure. I think it's defining a category.
I mean, it's no different than if you go
back like when Meta went public and when
Amazon went public. When you talk about
2 trillion relative to the opportunity,
the data centers in space, what SpaceX
is going to mean,
I I think it's really the start of what
we're going to see in terms of just a
whole new category. So, I also think you
cannot, when you look at SpaceX and you
look at OpenAI and you look at Anthropic
and some of these IPOs, I also don't
view them as sucking oxygen out of, you
know, traditional growth like Mag 7. I
think it's going to be incremental to
the adoption. But also, I view SpaceX,
it's the it's the first step to what
ultimately will be a merger with Tesla.
Uh-huh. And you're saying 2027? 2027,
while the the that the AI theme is
continuing, I think, to play out.
Because that will be Musk bringing his
ecosystem all within xAI merging SpaceX,
SpaceX merging with Tes- with Tesla. And
I think that would be really
[clears throat] the the golden goose in
terms of where he sees it.
All right. Dan, always great to have
you. Thank Thank you.
>> global head of technology research at
Wedbush Securities is coming up. We're
doing a talking about the seismic shift
for [music] Europe and for the world.
We're looking at how Hungary's ousting
of Viktor Orbán will reshape politics
[music] across the continent for years
to come. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The result for us is heartbreaking,
>> [music]
>> but it's clear the role of governing was
not given to us. I have congratulated
the winning party.
We won not small, but big, very, very
big.
Together, we changed the Orbán [music]
regime. Together, we liberated Hungary.
We took our homeland back.
Yeah, quite an eventful weekend [music]
there, changing of the guard over in in
Hungary. Just hearing from both, of
course, after the elections there that
ended Orbán's 16
16-year
rule. Right. Now, in fact, let's In
fact, let's get more on this and the
outcome there and what it could mean. 16
years is a long time, so you kind of
have to dial back into how things
actually looked, what changed over those
16 years. So, what major implications
for the country's future might that have
home and abroad, foreign policy and
everything
in between. Balazs Pen is our deputy
managing editor for here in Hong Kong.
He actually also used to cover Eastern
Europe and Balazs is here with us. Can
you remind us first in what capacity
were you covering Eastern Europe before?
Tell us, what is the street cred of
Balazs Pen in this part of the world?
>> I am from Hungary.
Uh so, I I I covered Hungary for almost
two decades. I was Bloomberg bureau
chief for Bloomberg. I ran Eastern
Europe coverage for Bloomberg. So, I
followed Mr. Orbán's
career since he first came on the scene
in 1988. I was a small kid, but I do
remember him as a student leader
who was at the forefront of the changes
at the end of communism way back when.
Okay. So, how significant is this change
we're talking about?
>> It is You called it seismic just before
the break, and that's exactly right.
This is a landslide and the scale of the
victory by the opposition is, I think,
unexpected, maybe even for them. They
Some of the polls showed them very far
ahead of the
Orbán government, but but a lot of
people were skeptical of some of those
polls and Orbán has pulled out some
pretty major comebacks previously. But
now, what we see is they won almost 55%
of the vote, more than 90 of the 106
single-member districts. They will have
a two-thirds majority, which allows them
to completely reshape Hungary and undo a
lot of what Orbán has done over the past
16 years when he himself had a
two-thirds majority. So, it is a
momentous momentous time for Hungary.
How does this then change the broader
American and separately Russian
strategies now that you have this change
in Eastern Europe? Well, the leader of
the opposition, the next prime minister,
Péter Magyar, has made it very, very
clear that one of the main things he
wants to break with is Orbán's alliance
with Vladimir Putin. He wants to return
Hungary to the European mainstream and
he wants to support
or at least not stand in the way of
European support for Ukraine. Orbán was
Putin's staunchest, most reliable ally
within the European Union, within NATO.
That alliance is now broken and Péter
Magyar will take Hungary in a different
direction. Balazs, it's great to have
you to really talk about the
implications of all this as well. Balazs
Pen is there, of course, who used to
cover, of course, Eastern Europe for us
and certainly our our resident expert
when it comes to Hungarian politics
about this seismic shift that we've
seen. Some other major political stories
we're also tracking for you today.
Peru's nationwide elections saw severe
delays at some polling stations,
especially in the [music] capital, Lima,
after ballots not arrive on time. Now,
the move could impact a significant
number of Peruvians [music] with
officials blaming the ballot
distributor. Some 27 million voters are
choosing a new legislature and [music]
president from a record 36 candidates.
India more than doubled export duties on
diesel [music] to 60 cents per liter
from 23 cents. Now, the hike comes as
the Iran war weighs on the outlook for
Asia's third largest economy, [music]
which imports 90% of its crude. It will
help the government shore up revenue
collection [music] and bolster
stockpiles. The duty on jet fuel has
also been increased to 45 [music] cents
per liter from 32 cents earlier. Yeah,
let's talk about this and what it means
for emerging economies. The conflict is
creating problems,
costs, and otherwise for farmers in the
Asia-Pacific as they certainly face much
higher transport costs and even just the
ability to to supply and
grab hold of fertilizer. Uh you have
harvest-ready rice fields have been left
idle. You have some farmers considering
skipping
for the upcoming season. Let's bring in
Manny Serapio, our Manila bureau chief,
who joins us to talk us joins us with
more on the story. Manny, that
all-too-real saying that rice is a life
in the Asia-Pacific. Talk to us about
the likely impact this will have on rice
production.
Right. So, rice is really a staple for
more than half of the global population.
And what we're seeing here is because of
the near closure still
near closure of the um
still being largely blocked, the uh
Strait of Hormuz. Uh it's uh choking the
a vital route for fuel and fertilizer
deliveries to most of Asia. So, we're
seeing uh the likes of Thailand and
Vietnam uh possibly planting less. For
for Vietnam, we're seeing um their
usually uh three crops of rice a year
being possibly cut to two for some
farmers. And for uh Thailand, some uh
farmers are
uh either not um
harvesting what's what's already ready
for for harvest or uh they are uh
delaying it, which could affect the
quality. And in the Philippines, you
have uh farmers who have um probably
planting less for for uh
the upcoming wet season um uh paddy rice
crop. Uh that's probably that's probably
that's precisely because of the um price
of diesel and fertilizer, which have
doubled, even tripled um
here here in the country and and and and
and mostly in Asia and and for most of
Asia. And um one one um
expert was saying that
uh
uh the rice a paddy rice um
crop this year might drop by around 10%.
That's about 2 million tons of the
projected 20.3 million tons uh uh output
by the Philippines. And in Cambodia, out
of 2,000 farmers, you have a 10th saying
that, you know, um we'll we'll probably
not uh plant rice unless the the price
for the rice is is is fixed because we
haven't seen rice really uh recover from
a decade low in um
late October.
Yeah, certainly a lot of pain among the
farmers in this region, Manolo, as you
as you highlighted. So, so in terms of
this concern over now
shortages in food, for example, I mean,
what are people saying? What's the
outlook?
So, basically right now, the inventories
are still ample. That's why you have
rice uh still uh just under $400 a ton.
That's not too far from the $350, which
is a 10-year low for the benchmark Thai
white rice
uh that we uh saw in in late October.
But the thing is um
if production becomes affected because
we're seeing uh uh the planting for the
wet season happening or starting to
happen in few weeks in the Philippines
and Thailand,
um
future supply will definitely be
affected and and and we'll see po-
possibly uh a spike in rice prices. And
that will be on top of what we're seeing
in fuel and fertilizer right now.
All right. Uh Manolo, thank you so much
for joining us. Manolo Serapio, there,
our Manila bureau chief, uh really
highlighting the risks here really here
when it comes to uh the harvest season
and the like for many Asian farmers
right now. A reminder of our new online
feature as well, the Bloomberg video hub
for subscribers. You can really explore
[music]
everything from live streaming, news,
and interviews, and all of our Bloomberg
TV shows, documentaries, reporter
analysis, [music] and more. Check it out
at bloomberg.com/videos.
Uh right, welcome back. Airlines are
coming under pressure for very obvious
reasons today given the
the failure in talks, the price pop in
in energy prices. Uh and of course,
Cathay Pacific, putting those two things
together, is cutting passenger capacity
following the surge in jet fuel costs.
It's something I guess to consider as
you look at the airline space here.
Yeah, not just Cathay, also Hong Kong
Express. So, according to Cathay,
they're going to be cutting uh some of
those capacity too in during that same
period. So, yes, once again, the
airlines are are suffering given that
spike up in oil prices once again now
that we are back uh well above that 100
level here once again. Uh there you go.
The standout still remains CATL on
higher oil prices, right? Given the fact
that you have a lot of these battery
stocks that are doing much better here
today. And it's really on track for a
record uh for the stock. And it's
interesting, right? When it comes to the
the the short sellers around this stock,
there's actually been quite a a decent
amount that have really been circling
around the stock of late. We'll see how
their earnings turn out, but we might
be, you know, talking talking about a
potential short squeeze here really,
Dave. Yeah, something to consider as we
move into again, this earning season is
going to be very very telling and as far
as cost pressures and the outlook is
concerned here. Uh we're looking at
April uh 15th. That's 2 days from now,
of course, is when CATL comes out with
earnings. Uh Hang Seng index on your
screens down 1 and a quarter uh of 1%.
So, yeah, this is going to be a very
very busy day ahead as you we make our
way into the Middle Eastern European
open given all the news flow. Very big
day, of course, a very big week ahead
here.
>> Yeah, we're going to be busy tomorrow
and of course, the following day. We'll
be live at the HSBC Global Investment
Summit here in Hong Kong to and course,
for key conversations with the HSBC
[music] Group CEO, George Elhedery, the
Hong Kong CEO, Maggie among [music]
others here. And we'll also hear from
many of our Middle East experts at that
event here as well.
Yep. We have plenty more ahead including
this one if I get to that in a moment.
I have to dash right now.
>> [laughter]